Nothing slowed the Chicago Bulls today. 
Not a back injury to Michael Jordan, who scored 26 of his 29 points in the first half. 
Not the ejection of Dennis Rodman, who had to leave the game in the third quarter with two technical fouls. 
And certainly not the Miami Heat, a team that looked dreadfully overmatched.

Taking a commanding 2-0 lead in their three-of-five-game playoff series, the Bulls whipped the Heat, 106-75, tonight at the United Center. 
The only concern for the Bulls was Jordan, who suffered an injury to his lower back late in the second quarter after driving to the basket.

Jordan returned and played the entire third quarter, but he moved gingerly, and he left the bench before the game ended to receive treatment. 
Jordan described the injury as back spasms, and he said he would play Wednesday night at Miami in Game 3 of the Eastern Conference first-round series.

"I went up for a layup and kind of twisted my back muscle," Jordan said. 
"It won't be anything to keep me out. Once I came out, it stiffened up on me. 
I have a couple of days to get some treatment and I'll be ready for Wednesday. 
I've had it the last four or five years. This is just a sign of getting old. 
I don't anticipate it affecting my play. 
I'm pretty sure I'm going to be a target the next game, just to see how well I'll respond. 
Good. I'll be ready."

As for Miami, it might almost be time to hit Miami Beach. 
The Heat played well enough in Game 1 to get Chicago's attention, but in this game the Bulls never trailed. 
This was how the Bulls played during their record-setting 72-victory season -- methodically and brilliantly. 
Jordan and Scottie Pippen (24 points, 8 rebounds, 8 assists) led the way, as the Bulls built a 25-point lead by halftime. 
Chicago turned in a superb defensive effort that contained Miami's Alonzo Mourning (14 points) and Tim Hardaway (9 points).

Continue reading the main story
Heat Coach Pat Riley had no choice but to watch with dismay and disdain. 
Riley was ejected in Game 1, and he complained vehemently about the officiating after that game. 
Bulls Coach Phil Jackson, Riley's longtime rival, countered by saying that the officiating in Game 1 was fine. 
But there was nothing for Riley to argue about tonight. This game was settled by the Bulls.

"We got their best game tonight," Riley said. 
"It was almost as though our guys came in and apologized for their aggressive play the other night. 
We wanted to come in here and play well for two games.
 We played well basically for two and a half quarters. 
We got our heads handed to us. We were soft, very soft."

Rodman's ejection was mild by his standards, although he made an obscene gesture as he left the court.
He picked up his first technical foul for arguing a call in the second quarter. 
Then, with 3 minutes 1 second left in the third quarter, Rodman had something else to say, and he was given his second technical, an automatic ejection. 
Pippen quickly got between Rodman and the closest referee, and Rodman walked off the court. 
Following his normal practice at home, Rodman took off his jersey and handed it to a youngster before disappearing down the tunnel. 
The crowd roared its approval.

"Dennis is under control," said Jordan. "They're being ticky-tack with him."

By the time Rodman was ejected, it was clear the Bulls would win without him. 
The Bulls and the Knicks each need one more victory to face each other in the next round of the playoffs.

"We'd like to finish off the Heat as quickly as possible so that we can get into the second round," Jordan said. 
"The Knicks look like they can capitalize in their series pretty quickly.

"I think we're smarter than what Miami anticipated. 
They're going to try to junk the game up physically and mentally. 
We know from facing the Knicks for years that they've junked the game up physically and tried to take us out of what we wanted to do. 
We're not going to fall prey to that."

It has been a frustrating series for Mourning, who was ejected late in Game 1, and who has been held to an average of just 12 points in this series. 
In the last two games, Mourning has the same number of fouls as rebounds: 10.

Miami's only hope for victory is if Mourning plays well, making up for Chicago's superiority at other positions. 
But the Heat center was contained again tonight, and he has been too emotional and too impatient.
The Bulls mixed defenses, double-teaming Mourning sometimes, letting Luc Longley play Mourning one-on-one at other times.
Despite lacking a dominant center, Chicago's defense is quick enough to make it frustrating for a center who does not make quick decisions. 
Mourning often drove into the teeth of Chicago's defense, with little success. He led both teams with seven turnovers, and he was clearly frustrated when the game ended.

"I'm disappointed but not demoralized," Mourning said. 
"Coach told us to keep our heads up and prepare hard for Wednesday. 
I knew they would double-team me. They were determined that I would get no layups."

The Bulls were also determined not to let Miami win. 
And after this game, the heat was clearly on Miami.