Just before sunrise, on Oct. 12, 2003, the residents of Argyle Road in Brooklyn were woken by gunfire.

Then, as now, such a thing was virtually unheard-of. 
The quiet street is in Prospect Park South, an architectural enclave of hundred-year-old trees, landmark homes and an urban gentry of lawyers, chefs and jewelry designers. 
With its air of Victorian charm, the neighborhood looks nothing like the rest of New York City. It seems like a nice Connecticut suburb, not the heart of Brooklyn.

But that morning, as the police arrived on Argyle Road ¡ª not coincidentally, 
in minutes ¡ª the worst came to pass: the body of a young man was discovered in a driveway just outside a Queen Anne house toward the end of the block. 
He was lying facedown on a bloody yellow blanket. In the dawning daylight, it soon became apparent that he had been shot five times.

Fifteen years later, the circumstances of how that man, Mark S. Fisher, 
a 19-year-old college student from New Jersey, wound up dead in the driveway remain the subject of a simmering debate in spite of nearly every fact-finding method the criminal-justice system has at its disposal. 
There was a two-week trial. There were several state appeals. There was a federal appeal. There were countless legal hearings. 
There was even an exhaustive inquiry by the Brooklyn district attorney¡¯s office. 
But all of them have so far failed to silence the stubborn whispers questioning the case that have long been heard in the circles that surround the Brooklyn courts.

Earlier this month, an appeals court addressed some of those whispers when it abruptly threw out the conviction of a man found guilty of killing Mr. Fisher, 
ruling that the prosecutors at his trial withheld evidence from his lawyers and relied on testimony from a witness who had lied in sending him to prison. 
Just a few days ago, at yet another hearing that raised more questions than it answered, the prosecutors suddenly announced that they were going to challenge the ruling that threw out the conviction, 
and if that failed they were prepared to retry the man, John Giuca.

Continue reading the main story
Many murder cases are built on science ¡ª fingerprints, ballistics, 
DNA ¡ª but Mr. Giuca¡¯s case was built from the start on something much more tenuous: the shifting stories of a group of privileged young people who were partying with him and Mr. Fisher on the late-night-into-morning when Mr. Fisher died. From the outset, 
the prosecution¡¯s presentation was a kind of collegiate Rashomon: people lied, changed their statements and often contradicted one another. ¡°This wasn¡¯t really a forensic case,¡± 
said Mark Hale, the prosecutor who oversaw the probe by the district attorney¡¯s office. ¡°This was a case of who said what to whom, when.¡±

At the hearing on Tuesday, the lawyer who has been handling Mr. Giuca¡¯s appeals, Mark A. Bederow, all but dared the district attorney¡¯s office to take the case to trial again, saying it had already been ¡°reduced to rubble.¡±

While the hearing left unsettled the question of whether there would be a second trial, it failed to touch on a more important issue. Notwithstanding the Fisher family¡¯s grief, should the prosecutors ¡ª given the evidence they had ¡ª have gone ahead and tried the case the first time?

It was Columbus Day weekend in 2003 when Mr. Fisher, 6-foot-5 and his high school¡¯s recent prom king, went into Manhattan with a group of college buddies. He was back in New Jersey from Fairfield University in Connecticut, and this was his first unsupervised trip to the city. Though he and his friends were underage, they used fake IDs to bar hop on the Upper East Side. They ultimately landed at Bar Harbor, a pub on First Avenue popular with college students.

There, by chance, they ran into another friend from Fairfield, Angel DiPietro, who had come into the city from Long Island. Ms. DiPietro, 21, was with her own friends ¡ª among them a pretty young woman named Meredith Denihan. Within minutes, Ms. Denihan and Mr. Fisher hit it off.

Eventually the Fairfield crowd set off for a different bar, Martell¡¯s, but Mr. Fisher stayed with Ms. Denihan to grab a slice of pizza and join her Long Island friends at their own new spot, Tin Lizzie. Ms. DiPietro had arranged to meet a friend from Brooklyn there, Albert Cleary, who brought along his own friend, Mr. Giuca. Though Mr. Cleary was 21 and legal, Mr. Giuca was 20 and could not get past security. By that point, it was late, or rather early morning; and stuck outside Tin Lizzie, Mr. Giuca suggested that they take the party back to his house in Prospect Park South ¡ª his parents were away. Joining the group of strangers, Mr. Fisher hopped into their cab.

The night went awry as soon as they got back to Mr. Giuca¡¯s seven-bedroom home on Stratford Road. Mr. Fisher, already drunk, sat on a table, irking Mr. Giuca, who felt ¡°disrespected,¡± as Mr. Cleary testified at his trial. As drinks were poured and joints were passed around, several more of Mr. Giuca¡¯s friends showed up. One was Antonio Russo, a 17-year-old high-school dropout with a habit of carrying guns who lived around the corner.